# Text Template Processor
## Overview
***Text Template Processor*** is a class library written in C# 10 and .NET 6 that allows you to easily create console applications for processing text
template files and generating new text files from the templates. The library implements the following features:

- Control of the indentation of each generated text line
- Support for named tokens that act as placeholders for generated text
- Template files are made up of named blocks of text lines (called *Segments*) that are logical units that can be pieced together in any order to generate
  the final output file
- A special *Segment* called a *Pad Segment* can be defined to be automatically placed between consecutive occurrences of the same named *Segment*
- Special handling of the indentation of the first line of a *Segment* the first time that *Segment* is processed
- Extensive validation of the text template file to ensure it is usable
- Detailed informational, warning, and error messages (all messages are displayed in the *Console* app)

These features will be described in much more detail throughout the remainder of this document.

## Public Classes
The ***Text Template Processor*** class library contains two public classes that can be used for creating your specific text template processor application.

- ***TextTemplateProcessor*** - This is the main class in this library. It contains all the functionality needed for processing text template files and
  generating new files from the template. Although you can use this class directly, you will likely want to use the second class described next.
- ***TextTemplateConsoleBase*** - This is an abstract base class that derives from the ***TextTemplateProcessor*** class. It provides some additional
  functionality, such as writing log messages to the *Console*, among others. This is the class from which you would normally derive your custom
  text template processor class.

## Internal Classes
The following classes are defined as internal to the class library. They provide the functionality to support the two public classes described above.
You normally would never need to access any of these classes directly in your code. They are just listed here to give you an idea of what went into
the design of this class library.

- ***FileAndDirectoryService*** - This class handles all I/O for the ***Text Template Processor*** class library, including creating directories, reading,
  writing, and deleting files, etc.
- ***PathValidater*** - This class is used for validating file and directory path strings to ensure they're valid.
- ***TextReader*** - This class handles the reading of text files. (The actual reading is performed by the ***FileAndDirectoryService*** class.)
- ***TextWriter*** - This class handles the writing of text files (the actual writing is performed by the ***FileAndDirectoryService*** class.)
- ***ConsoleLogger*** - All informational, warning, and error messages generated by the ***Text Template Processor*** class library are routed through
  this class.
- ***ConsoleReader*** - Displays a prompt on the *Console* and then retrieves the user response to that prompt.
- ***ConsoleWriter*** - Writes text lines to the *Console*.
- ***MessageWriter*** - Formats messages and then calls the ***ConsoleWriter*** class to write the messages to the *Console*.
- ***Locater*** - This class is shared by many of the other classes described here. It is used for keeping track of the current location in the
  text template file that is being processed.
- ***TemplateLoader*** - This class manages the reading and parsing of the text template file.
- ***SegmentHeaderParser*** - Parses segment header lines in the text template file and saves the segment names and control information.
- ***TextLineParser*** - Parses text lines in the text template file and saves the indent control information for each line.
- ***TokenProcessor*** - Parses the tokens contained on the text lines in the text template file and saves the token names. This class is also called
  to replace tokens with generated text in the generated output file.
- ***NameValidater*** - Validates *Segment* names and token names to ensure that they are valid.
- ***DefaultSegmentNameGenerator*** - Used for generating default names for *Segments* whose names are either missing or invalid.
- ***IndentProcessor*** - Maintains the proper indentation of generated text lines based on the control information that was retrieved from the
  *Segment* headers and the indent control information found on the text lines of the text template file.
- ***ServiceLocater*** - This is a *Ninject*-derived class used for managing dependency injection in the ***Text Template Processor*** class library.

## Template Files
A template file is a specially formatted text file that can be used as the basis for generating other text files. In the case of the ***Text Template
Processor*** class library, the template files are made up of one or more *Segments*. Each *Segment* contains a logical unit of one or more text lines.
For example, template used for generating C# code might have a segment that defines the structure of a property which has a backing field.